# Comments  
The purpose of including comments in your code is to explain what the code is doing.  
Java supports both single and multi-line comments. All characters that appear within a comment are ignored by the Java compiler.  
  
A **single-line** comment starts with **two forward slashes** and continues until it reaches the end of the line.  
**For example:**

```java
// this is a single-line comment
x = 5; // a single-line comment after code
```

>🛈 Adding comments as you write code is a good practice, because they provide clarification and understanding when you need to refer back to it, as well as for others who might need to read it.

---

# Multi-Line Comments  
Java also supports comments that span multiple lines.  
You start this type of comment with a forward slash followed by an asterisk, and end it with an asterisk followed by a forward slash.  
**For example:**

```java
/* This is also a  
comment spanning  
multiple lines */
```

Note that Java does not support nested multi-line comments.  
However, you can nest single-line comments within multi-line comments.

```java
/* This is a single-line comment:  
  
	// a single-line comment  
  
*/
```

>🛈 Another name for a Multi-Line comment is a Block comment.

---

# Documentation Comments
**Documentation comments** are special comments that have the appearance of multi-line comments, with the difference being that they generate external documentation of your source code. These begin with a forward slash followed by two asterisks, and end with an asterisk followed by a forward slash.  
**For example:**

```java
/** This is a documentation comment */  
  
/** This is also a  
documentation comment */
```

**Javadoc** is a tool which comes with JDK and it is used for generating Java code documentation in HTML format from Java source code which has required documentation in a predefined format.  
  
When a documentation comment begins with more than two asterisks, Javadoc assumes that you want to create a "box" around the comment in the source code. It simply ignores the extra asterisks.  
**For example:**

```java
/**********************  
  
This is the start of a method  
  
***********************/
```

>🛈 This will retain just the text "This is the start of a method" for the documentation.