# Exceptions
An **exception** is a problem that occurs during program execution. Exceptions cause abnormal termination of the program.  
**Exception handling** is a powerful mechanism that handles runtime errors to maintain normal application flow.  
  
An exception can occur for many different reasons. Some examples:  
- A user has entered invalid data.  
- A file that needs to be opened cannot be found.  
- A network connection has been lost in the middle of communications.  
- Insufficient memory and other issues related to physical resources.

>🛈 As you can see, exceptions are caused by user error, programmer error, or physical resource issues. However, a well-written program should handle all possible exceptions.

---

# Exception Handling
Exceptions can be caught using a combination of the **try** and **catch** keywords.  
A try/catch block is placed around the code that might generate an exception.  
**Syntax:**

```java
try {
  //some code
} catch (Exception e) {
  //some code to handle errors
}
```

A **catch** statement involves declaring the type of exception you are trying to catch. If an exception occurs in the **try** block, the **catch** block that follows the **try** is checked. If the type of exception that occurred is listed in a **catch** block, the exception is passed to the **catch** block much as an argument is passed into a method parameter.  
The **Exception** type can be used to catch all possible exceptions.  
  
The example below demonstrates exception handling when trying to access an array index that does not exist:

```java
public class MyClass {
	public static void main(String[ ] args) {
		try {
			int a[ ] = new int[2];
			System.out.println(a[5]);
		} catch (Exception e) {
			System.out.println("An error occurred");
		}
	}
}
```

Without the **try/catch** block this code should crash the program, as a[5] does not exist.

>🛈 Notice the (**Exception e)** statement in the **catch** block - it is used to catch all possible Exceptions.