# Inheritance  
**Inheritance** is the process that enables one class to acquire the properties (methods and variables) of another. With inheritance, the information is placed in a more manageable, hierarchical order.  
  
The class inheriting the properties of another is the **subclass** (also called derived class, or child class); the class whose properties are inherited is the **superclass** (base class, or parent class).  
  
To inherit from a class, use the **extends** keyword.  
This example shows how to have the class **Dog** to inherit from the class **Animal**.

```java
class Dog extends Animal {  
	// some code  
}
```

>🛈 Here, Dog is the **subclass**, and Animal is the **superclass**.

---

# Inheritance  
When one class is inherited from another class, it inherits all of the superclass' **non-private** variables and methods.  
**Example:**

```
class Animal {  
	protected int legs;  
	public void eat() {  
		System.out.println("Animal eats");  
	}  
}  
  
class Dog extends Animal {  
	Dog() {  
		legs = 4;  
	}  
}
```

As you can see, the Dog class inherits the legs variable from the Animal class.  
We can now declare a Dog object and call the **eat** method of its superclass:

```
class MyClass {
	public static void main(String[ ] args) {
		Dog d = new Dog();
		d.eat();
	}
}
```

>🛈 Recall the **protected** access modifier, which makes the members visible only to the subclasses.

---

# Inheritance
Constructors are not member methods, and so are not inherited by subclasses.  
However, the constructor of the superclass is called when the subclass is instantiated.  
**Example:**

```
class A {
	public A() {
		System.out.println("New A");
	}
}
class B extends A {
	public B() {
		System.out.println("New B");
	}
}

class Program {
	public static void main(String[ ] args) {
		B obj = new B();
	}
}
```

>🛈 You can access the superclass from the subclass using the **super** keyword.  
For example, **super.var** accesses the var member of the superclass.