# Abstraction
Data **abstraction** provides the outside world with only essential information, in a process of representing essential features without including implementation details.  
A good real-world example is a _book_. When you hear the term book, you don't know the exact specifics, such as the page count, the color, or the size, but you understand the idea, or abstraction, of a book.  
The concept of **abstraction** is that we focus on essential qualities, rather than the specific characteristics of one particular example.  
  
In Java, abstraction is achieved using **abstract classes** and **interfaces**.  
An abstract class is defined using the **abstract** keyword.  
- If a class is declared abstract it cannot be instantiated (you cannot create objects of that type).  
- To use an abstract class, you have to inherit it from another class.  
- Any class that contains an abstract method should be defined as abstract.

>🛈 An abstract method is a method that is declared without an implementation (without braces, and followed by a semicolon): **abstract void walk();**

---

# Abstract Class
For example, we can define our Animal class as abstract:

```java
abstract class Animal {  
	int legs = 0;  
	abstract void makeSound();  
}
```

The makeSound method is also abstract, as it has no implementation in the superclass.  
We can inherit from the Animal class and define the makeSound() method for the subclass:

```java
class Cat extends Animal {
	public void makeSound() {
		System.out.println("Meow");
	}
}
```

>🛈 Every Animal makes a sound, but each has a different way to do it. That's why we define an abstract class Animal, and leave the implementation of how they make sounds to the subclasses.  
>
>This is used when there is no meaningful definition for the method in the superclass.