# Methods 
Methods define **behavior**. A method is a collection of statements that are grouped together to perform an operation. System.out.println() is an example of a method.  
You can define your own methods to perform your desired tasks.  
**Let's consider the following code:**

```java
class MyClass {

	static void sayHello() {
		System.out.println("Hello World!");
	}

	public static void main(String[ ] args) {
		sayHello();
	}
}
```

The code above declares a method called "sayHello", which prints a text, and then gets called in **main**.

>🛈 To call a method, type its name and then follow the name with a set of parentheses.

---

# Calling Methods
You can call a method as many times as necessary.  
When a method runs, the code jumps down to where the method is defined, executes the code inside of it, then goes back and proceeds to the next line.  
**Example:**

```java
class MyClass {

	static void sayHello() {
		System.out.println("Hello World!");
	}

	public static void main(String[ ] args) {
		sayHello();
		sayHello();
		sayHello();
	}
}
```

>🛈 In cases like the one above, where the same thing is repeated over and over, you can achieve the same result using loops (while or for).

---

# Method Parameters
You can also create a method that takes some data, called **parameters**, along with it when you call it. Write parameters within the method's parentheses.  
For example, we can modify our **sayHello**() method to take and output a **String** parameter.

```java
class MyClass {

	static void sayHello() {
		System.out.println("Hello World!");
	}
	public static void main(String[ ] args) {
		sayHello();
	}
}
```

The method above takes a String called **name** as a parameter, which is used in the method's body. Then, when calling the method, we pass the parameter's value inside the parentheses.  
Methods can take multiple, comma-separated parameters.

>🛈 The advantages of using methods instead of simple statements include the following:  
- **code reuse**: You can write a method once, and use it multiple times, without having to rewrite the code each time.  
- **parameters**: Based on the parameters passed in, methods can perform various actions.