# Constructors
**Constructors** are special methods invoked when an object is created and are used to initialize them.  
A constructor can be used to provide initial values for object attributes.  
  
- A constructor name must be same as its class name.  
- A constructor must have no explicit return type.  
  
**Example of a constructor:**

```java
public class Vehicle {  
	private String color;  
	Vehicle() {  
		color = "Red";  
	}  
}
```

The **Vehicle**() method is the constructor of our class, so whenever an object of that class is created, the color attribute will be set to "Red".  
A constructor can also take parameters to initialize attributes.

```java
public class Vehicle {  
	private String color;  
	Vehicle(String c) {  
		color = c;  
	}  
}
```

>🛈 You can think of constructors as methods that will set up your class by default, so you don’t need to repeat the same code every time.

---

# Using Constructors  
The constructor is called when you create an object using the **new** keyword.  
**Example:**

```java
public class MyClass {  
	public static void main(String[ ] args) {  
		Vehicle v = new Vehicle("Blue");  
	}  
}
```

>🛈 This will call the constructor, which will set the **color** attribute to "Blue".

---

# Constructors
A single class can have multiple constructors with different numbers of parameters.  
The setter methods inside the constructors can be used to set the attribute values.  
  
**Example:**

```java
public class Vehicle {  
	private String color;  
  
	Vehicle() {  
		this.setColor("Red");  
	}  
	Vehicle(String c) {  
		this.setColor(c);  
	}  
  
	// Setter  
	public void setColor(String c) {  
		this.color = c;  
	}  
}
```

The class above has two constructors, one without any parameters setting the color attribute to a default value of "Red", and another constructor that accepts a parameter and assigns it to the attribute.  
  
Now, we can use the constructors to create objects of our class.

```java
//color will be "Red"
Vehicle v1 = new Vehicle();

//color will be "Green"
Vehicle v2 = new Vehivle("Green");
```

>🛈 Java automatically provides a default constructor, so all classes have a constructor, whether one is specifically defined or not.