# Multidimensional Arrays
**Multidimensional** arrays are array that contain other arrays. The two-dimensional array is the most basic multidimensional array.  
To create multidimensional arrays, place each array within its own set of square brackets.  
**Example of a two-dimensional array:**

```java
int[ ][ ] sample = { {1, 2, 3}, {4, 5, 6} };
```

This declares an array with two arrays as its elements.  
To access an element in the two-dimensional array, provide two indexes, one for the array, and another for the element inside that array.  
The following example accesses the first element in the second array of sample.

```java
int x + sample[1][0];
System.out.printlb(x);
```

>🛈 The array's two indexes are called **row index** and **column index**.

---

# Multidimensional Arrays
You can get and set a multidimensional array's elements using the same pair of square brackets.  
**Example:**

```java
int[ ][ ] myArr = { {1, 2, 3}, {4}, {5.6.7} };
myArr[0][2] = 42;
int x = myArr[1][0]; //4
```

The above two-dimensional array contains three arrays. The first array has three elements, the second has a single element and the last of these has three elements.

>🛈 In Java, you're not limited to just two-dimensional arrays. Arrays can be nested within arrays to as many levels as your program needs. All you need to declare an array with more than two dimensions, is to add as many sets of empty brackets as you need. However, these are harder to maintain.  
>
>Remember, that all array members must be of the same type.